# astrolabe
This repository has code to generate the climate plate of an astrolabe, also known as the tympanum. Code for the other components will be added at a later date.

The astrolabe is an ancient astronomical instrument. It can be used for determining local time given the latitude, determining latitude given the local time, identifying stars and planets, calculating astronomical positions precisely, solving various surveying and triangulation tasks, and so on. It is an example of an analog computer. 'The Astrolabe' by James Morrison is the ideal resource for any questions on its history, construction and functions. There are many freely available resources online though, with its Wikipedia page offering a good starting point (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrolabe).

To input a latitude for a desired climate plate, run the program from terminal with the latitude value given after the file name. For example, 'python3 climate_plate.py 56.49' would generate a climate plate for Scotland, which is at a latitude 56.49°N. Southern latitudes are also expressed as positive values. Since South Africa is at latitude 30.56°S, its climate plate is generated by 'python3 climate_plate.py 30.56'. Alternatively, one can insert a desired latitude directly into the code at line 46 of 'climate_plate.py': running the code simply as 'python3 climate_plate.py' will then achieve the desired plate. The plate is always saved in a file named 'plate.pdf'.

This code uses Pycairo, which can be tricky at times. I found that when running Anaconda, there can be issues with Pycairo. I personally resolved this with the command
  'conda config --set auto_activate_base False'
entered into terminal. When wishing to work with Anaconda once more, I'd just reset to True with
  'conda config --set auto_activate_base True'
as needed.
